# Preface

Ron Henderson FASLA

We must leverage the information and insights that we gain from computing to plan, build, and adapt cities for health, safety, equity, and beauty, among other values. Otherwise, we squander the cultural and ecological promise that new and emerging technologies could help attain. Autonomous vehicles are one such computing-based technology – with the opportunity for traﬃc-related injuries and deaths to trend toward zero, with greater land use equity for people in streets, and with travel eﬃciencies that give people time back to their lives, among others. It was within the context of autonomous vehicles, and The Driverless City Project at Illinois Institute of Technology in Chicago, that Bao Ruiqing led an investigation of urban spatial data analytics to amplify and elevate our research. It is joyful to see some of this work in this book.

The Driverless City Project is an interdisciplinary initiative initiated in 2015 and funded by, among others, the National Science Foundation. It has involved landscape architects, roboticists, navigation engineers, law professionals, urban planners, transportation planners, social scientists, political scientists, and civil engineers. In 2018, I extended an invitation to Bao Ruiqing, an expert specializing in integrated research pertaining to urban spatial data analysis methods, to join the Driverless City Project as a visiting scholar working alongside our team on his research.. Concurrently, and with guidance from Bao Ruiqing, graduate research assistant and PhD candidate Alexis Arias Bettancourt explored urban spatial data analysis methods to enrich our research with theoretical models of analytics. 

In conjunction with the overarching Driverless City Project, Bao and Arias conducted experimental analyses exploring diverse facets of urban spatial structures in the city of Chicago. This research encompassed the evaluation of land cover type connectivity based on remote sensing (RS) imagery, scrutiny of the network structure within urban open spaces, examination of building height distribution, spatiotemporal data analysis, parametric models, as well as the examination of patterns and the generation of landmark points within the framework of driverless city studies. Over the span of approximately two years, the project successfully executed a total of approximately 20 exploratory experiments.


In this book, which has reached fruition about two and a half years after Bao Ruiqing's term as visiting scholar, I can witness at least four valuable accomplishments in this rigorous work:

1) Theoretical methods can be successfully intergrated into urban spatial data analysis.

2) Theoretical methods explored in Python code achieve operability and practical signiﬁcance.

3) Theoretical knowledge that is interactive, based on Python code, can be utilized to understand complex formulas and scenarios.

4) Explorations that utilize multi-source data with diﬀerent formats and contents provide resiliency and a rich diversity of scenarios for both data processing and analytical results. 

Urban spatial data analysis methods integrates many theoretical models across disciplines to promote interactive exploration of data analysis. It is book that will continue to inﬂuence the expansion of analytics to plan and design great cities. Ron Henderson FASLA is Professor of Landscape Architecture + Urbanism at Illinois Institute of Technology, inaugural Director of Research at The Alphawood Arboretum at Illinois Institute of Technolgy, and founding principal of LIRIO Landscape Architecture.
